README.md, before:


## About

This is a simple container-based guiguts setup. I developed it for Mac users, but it could be used on Linux with some adjustments.

## Requirements

- [Docker Desktop for Mac](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop)
- [XQuartz](https://www.xquartz.org) (X11 server)

## Setup

In XQuartz preferences, go to the Security tab. Check the box next to "Allow connections from network clients". Then restart XQuartz.

This is necessary because Docker will connect to the X11 server using the localhost network interface rather than a unix socket file. But random users still should not be able to connect to your X11 server.

By default, this Docker setup assumes you will use `~/dp/pp/` on your Mac to store your DP projects. If that's not the case, you can change the path in `docker-compose.yml`.

Lastly, allow connections to X11 from locahost. You might want to put this into your `.bash_profile`.

```
xhost +127.0.0.1
```

## Running guiguts

Easy:

```
docker-compose up -d
```

The container will handle everything from there. When you quit guiguts, the container will stop running.

## Included tools

- Guiguts
- Aspell
- Jeebies
- Bookloupe
- DPCustomMono2 font
- Geeqie (image viewer)
- HTML Tidy

If you want to run a shell inside the container to poke around, you can either use the "Open terminal" option in Guiguts "Custom menu", which will launch an xterm, or you can run this command to attach to the container and run a bash shell:

```
docker-compose exec guiguts bash
```

## Future plans

At some point I plan on adding an ebookmaker container. Or possibly bundling ebookmaker into this setup and adding it as a default option in guiguts' `Custom` menu.

Commit message:

Set up persisting header.txt and setting.rc again
Documented it better this time...

README.md, after:


## About

This is a simple container-based guiguts setup. I developed it for Mac users, but it could be used on Linux with some adjustments.

## Requirements

- [Docker Desktop for Mac](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop)
- [XQuartz](https://www.xquartz.org) (X11 server)

## Setup

In XQuartz preferences, go to the Security tab. Check the box next to "Allow connections from network clients". Then restart XQuartz.

This is necessary because Docker will connect to the X11 server using the localhost network interface rather than a unix socket file. But random users still should not be able to connect to your X11 server.

By default, this Docker setup assumes you will use `~/dp/pp/` on your Mac to store your DP projects. If that's not the case, you can change the path in `docker-compose.yml`.

Create a directory `~/.guiguts` and touch `header.txt` and `setting.rc` within it.

```
mkdir -p ~/.guiguts
touch ~/.guiguts/setting.rc ~/.guiguts/header.txt
```

If you don't like that path, use another, but adjust the paths in `docker-compose.yml` to match.

Lastly, allow connections to X11 from locahost. You might want to put this into your `.bash_profile`.

```
xhost +127.0.0.1
```

## Running guiguts

Easy:

```
docker-compose up -d
```

The container will handle everything from there. When you quit guiguts, the container will stop running.

## Guiguts configuration

Docker will store the Guiguts config file (setting.rc) and the HTML header (header.txt) on your Mac's filesystem, not within Docker. They should be saved between runs, even though the Docker containers themselves are ephemeral.

Just update settings in the Guiguts preferences like you normally would, and they should be saved properly.

If you want to see the config, it should be in your home directory under `~/.guiguts`.

## Included tools

- Guiguts
- Aspell
- Jeebies
- Bookloupe
- DPCustomMono2 font
- Geeqie (image viewer)
- HTML Tidy

If you want to run a shell inside the container to poke around, you can either use the "Open terminal" option in Guiguts "Custom menu", which will launch an xterm, or you can run this command to attach to the container and run a bash shell:

```
docker-compose exec guiguts bash
```

## Future plans

At some point I plan on adding an ebookmaker container. Or possibly bundling ebookmaker into this setup and adding it as a default option in guiguts' `Custom` menu.
